#summary Step-by-step guide to use ManiaPress on your WordPress install
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

ManiaPress is a suite of plugins and theme to display your WordPress install directly in Maniaplanet.

= Demo =

This URL is the Maniaplanet Blog: http://blog.maniaplanet.com/
Now try to paste that URL in the address bar of the Manialink browser in Maniaplanet.

= Components =

ManiaPress consists of:
  * *ManiaPress Core plugin*: shared config and libraries
  * *ManiaPress Theme Switcher plugin*: automatically selects the ManiaPress Theme when viewing from Maniaplanet, so your install can be both a Manialink and a Website at the same time
  * *ManiaPress Theme*: a theme to display WP as a Manialink
  * *ManiaPress Event Publisher*: automatically post an Event to ManiaHome whenever you publish a post so that everyone that bookmarked your Manialink is kept posted

= Features =

todo

= Requirements =

 * *WordPress 3.0* or higher
 * *PHP 5.3* or or higher
 * (optional) cURL extension (http://php.net/manual/en/book.curl.php)
 * (optional) JSON extension (http://php.net/manual/en/book.json.php)
 * (optional) You must be able to make HTTPS requests on ws.maniaplanet.com

= Prerequisite: create a Manialink code =

It's better to have your own Manialink code to you can use the Bookmark button and the Event Publisher.

  * Let's say your blog URL is http://www.example.com
  * Login with your Maniaplanet account on http://player.maniaplanet.com
  * Go to *Manialinks*
  * Create a code. The "URL of the XML file" is your blog URL.

For example, the Manialink code *maniaplanetblog* points to http://blog.maniaplanet.com

= Installation =

Unzip the maniapress package directly in your WordPress install. The zip contains the same directory structure as WordPress:

{{{
wp-content/
   plugins/
      maniapress-code/
         ...
      maniapress-theme-switcher.php
      maniapress-event-publisher.php
   themes/
      maniapress/
         ...
}}}

Now you have two choices:

   * *You want your WP install to act only as a Manialink*: enable the *ManiaPress Theme* in the WP Admin panel
   * *You want your WP install to act as both a Manialink and a Website* depending on where it is viewed from: enable the *ManiaPress Theme Switcher* plugin

= Basic configuration =

By now, you should have a basic ManiaPress install working. Let's now see a couple of important configuration options.

== Bookmark button ==

The first thing you will want to configure is your Manialink code. *If you set your Manialink code in the config, the ManiaHome bookmark button will automatically appear on your Manialink*.

To do that, you need (for now) to edit `wp-content/plugins/maniapress-core/config.php` (either manually or with the plugin editor in WP-Admin).

The first option in that file is the manialink code:
{{{
define('MANIAPRESS_CORE_MANIALINK', 'maniaplanetblog');
}}}

Then you can also set the display name so that it appears prettier with special formatting characters ; *use single quotes to avoid PHP errors, and don't forget to put a backslash before any single quote in the display name!*:
{{{
define('MANIAPRESS_CORE_MANIALINK_NAME', '$3cf$oManiaplanet$z Blog');
}}}

== Navigation menu ==

ManiaPress Theme uses WP's built-in navigation menu system to handle it's navigation menu. *To customize the navigation menu on your Manialink, just create a navigation menu called "manialink"*.

== Theme customization ==

You can customize a bit the theme by editing `wp-content/themes/maniapress/include/config.php`
You can change:
  * The background image (note that it will be streched to the full size of Maniaplanet's window)
  * The background color of the header
  * The background color of the content
  * The background color of the footer

Colors use the 3 hex chars + 1 alpha hex char. See http://tutorials.mania-creative.com/tm2_general_formattingtext/index-eng-1#colours

== ManiaHome Event Publishing ==

The Event Publishing is a really important feature. It will *automatically notify the players that bookmarked your Manialink when you publish a new Post by sending a public Event to ManiaHome*.

It's a bit long, but it's not complicated. Let's see how to set it up, step-by-step.

=== 1. Create API credentials ===

The event publisher uses the Maniaplanet Web Services API, so you need credentials to use that API. 

  * Connect with your account on http://developers.maniaplanet.com/webservices/
  * Click on "Create a new API user"
  * Follow the instructions

=== 2. Authorize your API user to post event for your Manialink ===

Now that you have an API user, you need to allow it to post events for your Manialink.

  * Launch Maniaplanet
  * Go to the "Maniahome" manialink
  * Go to Manager > Your Manialinks and click on your Manialink
  * Go to API
  * Enter your API username and click "update"

=== 3. Configure ManiaPress ===

You need to edit `wp-content/plugins/maniapress-core/config.php` At the end of the file:
{{{
define('MANIAPRESS_CORE_API_USERNAME', 'gouxim|my_manialink');
define('MANIAPRESS_CORE_API_PASSWORD', 'my_password');
}}}

=== 4. Enable the plugin ===

Now you can enable the ManiaPress Event Publisher plugin. When you publish a new post, and event will be automatically sent to ManiaHome and seen by everyone who bookmarked your Manialink! 
